NOTES.md, before:

Build List
_____________________________
B. MORE DATA/REVIEWS- ADD API CALL AND SEED DATABASE (more relevant data - Add more books data )

1. Search out how to add the NY Times Book review to the reviews show page for the book searched or displayed
______________________________
C. USER EXPERIENCE

1. Fix navbar to drop downs with Add Review, Add Book, My Reviews, Currently Reading, Want to Read, scopes, etc.
2. Reviews form, fix the user experience,- Add a link to create a review or Find a Book. Fix form pages and how they look.
______________________________
D. VALIDATIONS AND OMNIAUTH/FACEBOOK/GOOGLE

1. Add logos=> buttons for social logins (google/fb)
____________________________
E. HTML/CSS LAYOUT

1. How to display reviews horizontally on the books show page, this is also something I need to find out how to do on the library or books index page, and profile page (readers show)
2. style reader profile info on readers show page
3. Style Login/Signup/and all forms pages
______________________________
F. README

1. Fix Readme in md format to reader friendly view
_______________________________
G. FEATURE REQUEST
1. Stretch Goals // Feature Requests - create a new branch for friending another reader, and one to implement a timeline feature, like feature
2. Think of an additional model possibly to add as an enhancement to this app.
______________________________

- [X]Sprint 1 - Validations and Errors
- [X] Include reasonable validations for simple model objects (list of model objects with validations e.g. User, Recipe, Ingredient, Item)
    Reviews- minimum and max length, star rating and status required 
	Reader - username, email (uniqueness and presence), password length
	Book - title uniqueness, author presence

- [X] Include form display of validation errors (form URL e.g. /recipes/new) error messages are in the views (example: the partial _reader.html handles error messages for new and edit pages for readers, same for reviews _review handles error messages for reviews)

- [X]Sprint 2 -Sign in Out and Up
- [X] Include signup (how e.g. Devise)
- [X] Include login (how e.g. Devise)
- [X] Include logout (how e.g. Devise)
- [X] Include third party signup/login (how e.g. Devise/OmniAuth) (Google) & (Facebook)

- [X]Sprint 3 - Routes
- [X] Include nested resource show or index (URL e.g. users/2/recipes)
    nested reviews under books and under readers, ex: readers/1/reviews , books/1/reviews (index route)
- [X] Include nested resource "new" form (URL e.g. recipes/1/ingredients/new)
    books/10/reviews/new
- [X] Include a class level ActiveRecord scope method (model object & class method name and URL to see the working feature e.g. User.most_recipes URL: /users/most_recipes)
    Scoped book index by genre Book.genre  
	Scoped reviews index by book_id Review.by_the_book
	Scoped Books by Five Star reviews and made a view under Books called five_star   /five_star

Sprint 4 - Refactoring/DRY
- [ ] The application is pretty DRY
- [X] Limited logic in controllers
- [ ] Views use helper methods if appropriate
- [X] Views use partials if appropriate

Sprint 5 - How Does it Look?/Facelift
- [X]   Bootstrap- added basic bootstrap
- [ ]   Styling
- [ ]   Wireframing
- [ ]   bf logo
- [X]   Nav bar

Sprint 6 - Instructor Review and Feedback Prior to Project Review
- [ ]   Schedule meeting/ attend office hours with Aysan to go through App and write notes on what needs to be fixed

Commit message:

reworked nav bar labels to better communicate to user, updated build list for week 2 mvp

NOTES.md, after:

BUILD LIST TARGETS
*Refactoring/DRY*
- [ ] The application is pretty DRY
- [X] Limited logic in controllers
- [ ] Views use helper methods if appropriate
- [X] Views use partials if appropriate
_____________________________
A. Refactor Books class for API calls to dry up the code

B. DATA//Add a link to the NY Times Book review or review on some website for the current book

C. HTML/CSS LAYOUT
    1. Fix form pages
    2 How to display reviews horizontally on the books show page, this is also something I need to find out how to do on the library or books index page, and profile page (readers show)
    3 style reader profile info on readers show page
    4. Style Login/Signup/and all forms pages
    
D. VALIDATIONS AND OMNIAUTH/FACEBOOK/GOOGLE
    1. Add logos=> buttons for social logins (google/fb)

E. README
    1. Complete and Fix Readme instructions in md format to reader friendly view

F. FEATURE REQUEST
    1. Stretch Goals // Feature Requests - create a new branch for friending another reader, and one to implement a timeline feature, like feature
    2. Think of an additional model possibly to add as an enhancement to this app.
______________________________

- [X]Sprint 1 - Validations and Errors
- [X] Include reasonable validations for simple model objects (list of model objects with validations e.g. User, Recipe, Ingredient, Item)
    Reviews- minimum and max length, star rating and status required 
	Reader - username, email (uniqueness and presence), password length
	Book - title uniqueness, author presence

- [X] Include form display of validation errors (form URL e.g. /recipes/new) error messages are in the views (example: the partial _reader.html handles error messages for new and edit pages for readers, same for reviews _review handles error messages for reviews)

- [X]Sprint 2 -Sign in Out and Up
- [X] Include signup (how e.g. Devise)
- [X] Include login (how e.g. Devise)
- [X] Include logout (how e.g. Devise)
- [X] Include third party signup/login (how e.g. Devise/OmniAuth) (Google) & (Facebook)

- [X]Sprint 3 - Routes
- [X] Include nested resource show or index (URL e.g. users/2/recipes)
    nested reviews under books and under readers, ex: readers/1/reviews , books/1/reviews (index route)
- [X] Include nested resource "new" form (URL e.g. recipes/1/ingredients/new)
    books/10/reviews/new
- [X] Include a class level ActiveRecord scope method (model object & class method name and URL to see the working feature e.g. User.most_recipes URL: /users/most_recipes)
    Scoped book index by genre Book.genre  
	Scoped reviews index by book_id Review.by_the_book
	Scoped Books by Five Star reviews and made a view under Books called five_star   /five_star

Sprint 4 - Refactoring/DRY
- [ ] The application is pretty DRY
- [X] Limited logic in controllers
- [ ] Views use helper methods if appropriate
- [X] Views use partials if appropriate

Sprint 5 - How Does it Look?/Facelift
- [X]   Bootstrap- added basic bootstrap
- [ ]   Styling
- [ ]   Wireframing
- [ ]   bf logo
- [X]   Nav bar

Sprint 6 - Instructor Review and Feedback Prior to Project Review
- [ ]   Schedule meeting/ attend office hours with Aysan to go through App and write notes on what needs to be fixed
